So before we do anything with our Jason here, let's structure our app project here the way that we
should structure it, right?
So inside of the first.
So inside of our package here where my click.
Let's create a few packages and start with you till package, so all the utility classes will go there,
OK?
Add
a component package.
Dana.
Model.
And because we are going to need all of these a repository.
And I'm going to add screens, even though we're going to have just one screen, but it's always a good
idea to have such structure in section, so I'm going to also add network because we're going to have
some classes dedicated to network.
And because we are going to have.
And also because of dependency injection, I'm going to say to you where we can put our model and so
forth.
So this should be good for now and if we need to add anything else, we can come and create here.
Now we need it to create a model class that will model after a single question or single trivia question,
if you will.
OK, so we understand that a trivia question would have, of course, the question category answer and
of course, a list containing all of the possible choices, all of the possible answers.
Now we could just create again a class and mimic all of this.
But the best way to do so is to use a tool.
So if you go to Android Studio, if you click, let's say, instead of a model, that's where we're
going to do.
What it can do here, I can say right click, we're going to say new, you should get this hotline data
class file from Jason.
OK.
It's really handy tool that allows us to actually get or extract the data model or models in this case,
that represents our data data capacity.
So if you click here.
There are two options, right?
You could go ahead and copy the entire payload at such and then added here.
But there's also another option if you don't want to copy this entire payload because it could be too
much.
As you see, this is a really long file.
And so we can actually get the URL, so copy that URL right click.
And when I say retrieve from content from HDP or else or click that and here's where we paste that URL,
OK, where we have on a JSON, say OK, it would take a little bit, so it pulls in the entire payload.
As you see, it has a lot of information.
OK, now we have to add a class name, right?
So that will represent this one entity of the question and so forth.
So I'm going to go ahead and say, question like this?
OK, let's go ahead and say generate.
And the beauty of all of this, I would say, add also add in the beauty of all of this.
You may not need to do that, by the way, that is from get because I have a data repository attached
to this project.
OK, so the beauty of all of this for a few moments is that if you look at all model there, you can
see we have two classes.
If you click on this.
The first one is this class question and expect an array list of question item.
And then we have question item itself.
So this is a data class, so.
So the tool that we use went ahead and looked at the entire tree of these JSON here and separated these
two classes.
So it created this question item data classes here.
And you can see it follows exactly this payload here, right?
So for each item, for each, let's say question per se, right?
If you see here this object, we have a question category answer and choices as a list.
So that answer, although the order is different, but that doesn't matter.
So we have question, we have choices, category and list and look at choices.
Here is a list of string, which is exactly how it's set up for each one of these objects.
So this is good and we didn't have to do anything.
All we had to do was just to pass the URL to our JSON payload, and then the tool went ahead and created
and knew also how it created those two items was to model classes.
The question here, which is an array list of question item and question item the the item itself,
which contains it's a data class which has all of these properties in the constructor.
There we go.
So we don't have to do anything.
Now we have our model classes, which we're going to use to then extrapolate the data we want and to
show, you know what is in the face at a later time, of course, that it is to use these model classes
and retrieve the information from our API, which is this world design, which is this JSON payload
here now for us to be able to then pass or first connect to this remote URL and get this information
here, right?
We need it to, of course, have the infrastructure ready for that to happen, which means we need to
be able to connect to the URL and in the background.
Get to this information, all of this and pass it all and use that data.
There are a lot of ways to do what I just mentioned, which is to parse some data from somewhere in
this case, a remote server of section and get that information and make it so that it actually makes
sense in our application.
Right?
So to convert all of these into objects that we can call and say, question, give me the answers or
the choices or the the questions and so forth, like how do we do that now?
As I said, there are different ways to do this and different libraries that allows us to do this networking.
We're going to use one that is very popular, called retrofit.
And I really encourage you to actually whenever you need such transaction, which is to go and fetch
data from the internet API and so forth and get that data so we can use our applications.
I really recommend you to use Retrofit, which is an HDP client for Android in Java.
So now, as with anything in development, certain things may take a little bit to get used to because
of setting up, but also the way you need to set things up or the classes that you need to use from
this library to get things working.
But the great thing is that retrofit is really simple to use in a sense, once you get the hang of it,
because Ada's not to complicate things, it is actually to uncomplicate the process of doing HDP calls
as the network calls.
So you may imagine trying to get information using HDP requests and so forth in Android.
If we were to do ourselves.
It's very possible.
It's been done many times.
I've done it, but it takes a lot of effort because you may have to deal with some lower level classes
and understand how your requests are or cold and how to partition information into work.
So there's a lot of work now with retrofit.
Most of that work is actually abstracted out, so we don't have to worry about the underlining processes.
All right.
So as you see here, this is an example, says our retrofit turns your API into a Java interface, which
is really important, as you see here.
So for instance, as as an example, you have a GitHub service here and we want to go and get all the
repos for a certain user.
This is how you do it.
So you see, there is this annotation at Get New Pass here.
The path right to where you want to get this information, it's repos and then you have a function here.
Call this repo and it's a call type as you see and expect a list of repos and so forth.
So this is just an example.
Might and you pass the user this case, the user that you want to get the repos for and shows here.
How do you think, shade or generate any implementation of our GitHub class there?
So it's fairly so.
It's fairly easy once you understand how it works.
And so in this case, I'm creating a retrofit object and I'm actually invoking the builder their method,
and I'm past the base URL, the space URL and I built.
So I use that object retrofit object and pass it along the GitHub user along with our service.
And then I'm done.
So now I have this service.
I can use anywhere to do things like service that list repos and get that information.
OK, so as you know, to use it, then we have to configure our project.
So let's go to a retrofit configuration here.
Now there are a lot of things that are happening in the back end as retrofit goes and gets the data
right passes and so forth.
So you will see that it will need a few other.
So that way, we can were able to get this information right into an actual object that is known to
us in our code as something like question or question item.
So that's why we you see here we need to do a lot of converting.
We'll be able to go through that.
But one of the libraries we're going to be using for civilization is JSON.
I'm just giving you some of the things that you will need to think about or we will cover to get retrofit
work for us.
All right.
So if you scroll down here, you can see here there are two ways to set up retrofit in our project.
There is the maven.
You're not going to be using and there's a greater which is something that we would use, right?
You can see here, we've seen this before.
So what do we need to do really is to copy this line there and go to our project.
Let's go to great scripts.
Let's go to this one here.
The app and what I usually like to do is you've seen me now.
I'd just like to say retro fit like this and paste it all in, and we need to pass the actual retrofit
version of the latest version than what I usually do.
I go to view GitHub, where I click open the new tab.
So this is where this leaves this library.
And if you scroll down, you can see here, says Square Retrofit to retrofit two point nine zero.
So that is the version that is current at this point and should work.
So copy that and go back and add it there.
I want to go ahead in sync.
So we need something else right for it to work.
We need what we call the JSON converter.
So going back to the retrofit documentation here, you can scroll down.
Or in this case, let's see.
Right.
So we have converters here, and there are few options to get the sterilization library, so we're going
to get this design, they're going to copy this, go back to our code.
I'm going to say implementation.
And then, of course, I need to pass.
The version, too, that I find I zero in is go ahead and sink.
OK, so it seems like all is good and we should be good to go with retrofit.